README.md, before:

# Blockreffer for Obsidian

Search and embed blocks with `^block-references` aka `^block-refs` aka `^block-ids`.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/040fbea0-4364-4f3a-9229-e1602571e928)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e900c274-96ff-45ca-915b-552a61e4500c)

## Features

- Embed blocks with `^block-refs`
- Search your vault for blocks with `^block-refs`

---

# Contributing

## First time developing plugins?

Quick starting guide for new plugin devs:

- Check if [someone already developed a plugin for what you want](https://obsidian.md/plugins)! There might be an existing plugin similar enough that you can partner up with.
- Make a copy of this repo as a template with the "Use this template" button (login to GitHub if you don't see it).
- Clone your repo to a local development folder. For convenience, you can place this folder in your `.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-name` folder.
- Install NodeJS, then run `npm i` in the command line under your repo folder.
- Run `npm run dev` to compile your plugin from `main.ts` to `main.js`.
- Make changes to `main.ts` (or create new `.ts` files). Those changes should be automatically compiled into `main.js`.
- Reload Obsidian to load the new version of your plugin.
- Enable plugin in settings window.
- For updates to the Obsidian API run `npm update` in the command line under your repo folder.

## Releasing new releases

- Update your `manifest.json` with your new version number, such as `1.0.1`, and the minimum Obsidian version required for your latest release.
- Update your `versions.json` file with `"new-plugin-version": "minimum-obsidian-version"` so older versions of Obsidian can download an older version of your plugin that's compatible.
- Create new GitHub release using your new version number as the "Tag version". Use the exact version number, don't include a prefix `v`. See here for an example: https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-sample-plugin/releases
- Upload the files `manifest.json`, `main.js`, `styles.css` as binary attachments. Note: The manifest.json file must be in two places, first the root path of your repository and also in the release.
- Publish the release.

> You can simplify the version bump process by running `npm version patch`, `npm version minor` or `npm version major` after updating `minAppVersion` manually in `manifest.json`.
> The command will bump version in `manifest.json` and `package.json`, and add the entry for the new version to `versions.json`

## Adding your plugin to the community plugin list

- Check https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases/blob/master/plugin-review.md
- Publish an initial version.
- Make sure you have a `README.md` file in the root of your repo.
- Make a pull request at https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases to add your plugin.

## How to use

- Clone this repo.
- Make sure your NodeJS is at least v16 (`node --version`).
- `npm i` or `yarn` to install dependencies.
- `npm run dev` to start compilation in watch mode.

## Manually installing the plugin

- Copy over `main.js`, `styles.css`, `manifest.json` to your vault `VaultFolder/.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-id/`.

## Improve code quality with eslint (optional)
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a tool that analyzes your code to quickly find problems. You can run ESLint against your plugin to find common bugs and ways to improve your code. 
- To use eslint with this project, make sure to install eslint from terminal:
  - `npm install -g eslint`
- To use eslint to analyze this project use this command:
  - `eslint main.ts`
  - eslint will then create a report with suggestions for code improvement by file and line number.
- If your source code is in a folder, such as `src`, you can use eslint with this command to analyze all files in that folder:
  - `eslint .\src\`

## Funding URL

You can include funding URLs where people who use your plugin can financially support it.

The simple way is to set the `fundingUrl` field to your link in your `manifest.json` file:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": "https://buymeacoffee.com"
}
```

If you have multiple URLs, you can also do:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": {
        "Buy Me a Coffee": "https://buymeacoffee.com",
        "GitHub Sponsor": "https://github.com/sponsors",
        "Patreon": "https://www.patreon.com/"
    }
}
```

## API Documentation

See https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-api

Commit message:

update README with installation instructions and FAQ

README.md, after:

# Blockreffer for Obsidian

Search and embed blocks with `^block-references` aka `^block-refs` aka `^block-ids`.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/040fbea0-4364-4f3a-9229-e1602571e928)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e900c274-96ff-45ca-915b-552a61e4500c)

## Features

- Embed blocks with `^block-refs`
- Search your vault for blocks with `^block-refs`

## Installation

:information_source: Plugin is not yet published to the community plugin list.

Use [BRAT](https://tfthacker.com/BRAT) to install this plugin for now:
1. Install BRAT
	- Search for "BRAT" in Obsidian's community plugins
	- ... or click this link: [obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian42-brat](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian42-brat)
1. Enable BRAT after installation
1. Open BRAT settings
1. Click "Add Beta plugin"
1. Paste this into the repository field: `https://github.com/tyler-dot-earth/obsidian-blockreffer`
1. Click "Add plugin"
1. :sparkles: The plugin should now be installed.
	- NOTE: this will automatically update and use the latest beta version of the plugin.

## FAQ

### What are block references?

Check out the Obsidian docs: https://help.obsidian.md/Linking+notes+and+files/Internal+links#Link+to+a+block+in+a+note

### Can I assign hotkeys to this plugin's commands?

Yes. Use the `Hotkeys` (core Obsidian plugin) to assign hotkeys to this plugin's commands.

---

# Contributing

## First time developing plugins?

Quick starting guide for new plugin devs:

- Clone your repo to a local development folder. For convenience, you can place this folder in your `.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-name` folder.
- Install NodeJS, then run `npm i` in the command line under your repo folder.
- Run `npm run dev` to compile your plugin from `main.ts` to `main.js`.
- Make changes to `main.ts` (or create new `.ts` files). Those changes should be automatically compiled into `main.js`.
- Reload Obsidian to load the new version of your plugin.
- Enable plugin in settings window.
- For updates to the Obsidian API run `npm update` in the command line under your repo folder.

## Releasing new releases

- Update your `manifest.json` with your new version number, such as `1.0.1`, and the minimum Obsidian version required for your latest release.
- Update your `versions.json` file with `"new-plugin-version": "minimum-obsidian-version"` so older versions of Obsidian can download an older version of your plugin that's compatible.
- Create new GitHub release using your new version number as the "Tag version". Use the exact version number, don't include a prefix `v`. See here for an example: https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-sample-plugin/releases
- Upload the files `manifest.json`, `main.js`, `styles.css` as binary attachments. Note: The manifest.json file must be in two places, first the root path of your repository and also in the release.
- Publish the release.

> You can simplify the version bump process by running `npm version patch`, `npm version minor` or `npm version major` after updating `minAppVersion` manually in `manifest.json`.
> The command will bump version in `manifest.json` and `package.json`, and add the entry for the new version to `versions.json`

## Adding your plugin to the community plugin list

- Check https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases/blob/master/plugin-review.md
- Publish an initial version.
- Make sure you have a `README.md` file in the root of your repo.
- Make a pull request at https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-releases to add your plugin.

## How to use

- Clone this repo.
- Make sure your NodeJS is at least v16 (`node --version`).
- `npm i` or `yarn` to install dependencies.
- `npm run dev` to start compilation in watch mode.

## Manually installing the plugin

- Copy over `main.js`, `styles.css`, `manifest.json` to your vault `VaultFolder/.obsidian/plugins/your-plugin-id/`.

## Improve code quality with eslint (optional)
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is a tool that analyzes your code to quickly find problems. You can run ESLint against your plugin to find common bugs and ways to improve your code. 
- To use eslint with this project, make sure to install eslint from terminal:
  - `npm install -g eslint`
- To use eslint to analyze this project use this command:
  - `eslint main.ts`
  - eslint will then create a report with suggestions for code improvement by file and line number.
- If your source code is in a folder, such as `src`, you can use eslint with this command to analyze all files in that folder:
  - `eslint .\src\`

## Funding URL

You can include funding URLs where people who use your plugin can financially support it.

The simple way is to set the `fundingUrl` field to your link in your `manifest.json` file:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": "https://buymeacoffee.com"
}
```

If you have multiple URLs, you can also do:

```json
{
    "fundingUrl": {
        "Buy Me a Coffee": "https://buymeacoffee.com",
        "GitHub Sponsor": "https://github.com/sponsors",
        "Patreon": "https://www.patreon.com/"
    }
}
```

## API Documentation

See https://github.com/obsidianmd/obsidian-api
